# Ask Questions to Make Data-Driven Decisions

# Different Problem Types

> **Making predictions**: Using data to making informed decisions about how things may be in the future.
> 

> **Categorizing things**: Grouping data based on common features.
> 

> **Spotting something unusual**: Identifying data that is different from the norm.
> 

> **Identifying themes**: recognizing broader concepts and trends from categorized data.
> 

> **Discovering connections**: Identifying similar challenges across different entities - and using data and insights to find common solutions.
> 

> **Finding patters**: Using historical data about what happened in the past to understand how likely it is to happen again.
> 

# Create effective questions - SMART Questions

The **SMART methodology**: A tool for determining a question’s effectiveness based on whether is is specific, measurable, action-orientated, relevant, and time-bound

> **Specific question**: A question that is simple, significant, and focused on a single topic or a few closely related ideas.
> 

> **Measurable question**: A question whose answers can be quantified and assessed.
> 

> **Action-oriented question**: A question whose answers lead to change.
> 

> **Relevant question**: A question that has significance to the problem to be solved.
> 

> **Time-bound question**: A question that specifies a timeframe to be studied.
> 

There are also some questions that are not effective: 

> **Leading question**: A question that steers people toward a certain response
> 

> **Unfair question**: A question that makes assumptions or is difficult to answer honestly
> 

# Mathematical thinking

## Types of Data

> **Qualitative data**: A subjective and explanatory measure of a quality or characteristic
> 

> **Quantitative data**: A specific and objective measure, such as a number, quantity, or range.
> 

> **Open data**: Data that is available to the public.
> 

> **Metric**: A single, quantifiable type of data that is used for measurement.
> 

> **Metric goal**: A measurable goal set by a company and evaluated using metrics.
> 

> **Return on investment (ROI)**: A formula that uses the metrics of investment and profit to evaluate the success of an investment.
> 

> **Revenue**: The total amount of income generated by the sale of goods or services.
> 

## The Data-Inspired Decision Making

> **Data-inspired decision-making**: The process of exploring different data sources to find out what they have in common.
> 

### Different Data Designs Help Data-Inspired Decision Making

> **Data design**: How information is organized.
> 

Reports and dashboards are two types of data designs. 

> **Report**: A static collection of data periodically given to stakeholders.
> 

> **Dashboard**: A tool that monitors live, incoming data.
> 

In a report, pivot table and pivot charts are commonly used. 

> **Pivot table**: A data summarization tool used to sort, reorganize, group, count total, or average data.
> 

> **Pivot chart**: A chart created from the fields in a pivot table.
> 

## Mathematical Thinking

> **Algorithm**: A process or set of rules followed for a specific task
> 

> **Big data**: Large, complex datasets typically involving long periods of time, which enable data analysts to address far-reaching business problems.
> 

> **Small data**: Small, specific data points typically involving a short period of time, which are useful for making day-to-day decisions.
> 

# Using the Spreadsheet

## Basic Terminologies

> **Header**: The first row in a spreadsheet that labels the type of data in each column.
> 

> **Borders**: Lines that can be added around two or more cells on a spreadsheet.
> 

> **Range**: A collection of two or more cells in a spreadsheet.
> 

> **Filtering**: The process of showing only the data that meets a specified criteria while hiding the rest.
> 

> **Sorting**: The process of arranging data into a meaningful order to make it easier to understand, analyze, and visualize.
> 

> **Fill handle**: A box in the lower-right-hand corner of a selected spreadsheet cell that can be dragged through neighboring cells in order to continue an instruction.
> 

> **Equation**: A calculation that involves addition, subtraction, multiplication, or division (also called a math expression).
> 

> **Operator**: A symbol that names the operation or calculation to be performed.
> 

> **Math function**: A function that is used as part of a mathematical formula.
> 

> **Order of operations**: Using parentheses to group together spreadsheet values in order to clarify the order in which operations should be performed.
> 

> **Cell reference**: A cell or a range of cells in a worksheet typically used in formulas and functions.
> 

> **Field**: A single piece of information from a row or column of a spreadsheet; in a data table, typically a column in the table.
> 

> **Record**: A collection of related data in a data table, usually synonymous with row.
> 

## Some Functions

> **AVERAGE**: A spreadsheet function that returns an average of the values from a selected range.
> 

> **COUNT**: A spreadsheet function that counts the number of cells in a range that meet a specific criteria.
> 

> **MAX**: A spreadsheet function that returns the largest numeric value from a range of cells.
> 

> **MIN**: A spreadsheet function that returns the smallest numeric value from a range of cells.
> 

> **SUM**: A spreadsheet function that adds the values of a selected range of cells.
> 

# Business Task and Data Analysts

> **Business task**: The question or problem that data analysis resolves for a business.
> 

> **Problem domain**: The area of analysis that encompasses every activity affecting or affected by a problem.
> 

> **Scope of work (SOW)**: An agreed-upon outline of the tasks to be performed during a project.
> 

# Working with Stakeholders

Communication skills

> **Agenda**: A list of scheduled appointments.
> 

Conflict Resolution